Working with code (#18)
bcgov/ds-intro-to-python: course-content/13_working_with_code.qmd

---
title: Working with Code
teaching: 45
exercises: 10
questions:
  - Fill this in!
objectives:
  - know how to best organize your project
  - how to find help on topics and when troubleshooting
  - how to follow python coding style conventions
keypoints:
  - Same verse!
jupyter: python3
---

## Organizing coding work

> Most data projects consist of some version of a) finding some data, b) cleaning it up, and c) generating some insights. In an Excel world, all three stages often happen in a single document. Often over many tabs. Almost always with little documentation. If the project is purely "ask a one time question and get a one time answer and literally never need to look at the file again", then this approach is arguably efficient and effective. But what if we want to update the insights over time or apply the question to a different dataset? What if someone wants to reproduce what we did?  How about verify if what we did was valid or fix something that has gone wrong? These are some of the reasons why good file management practice is key to data project success. 

Reviewer: I like this framing a lot, we just have to be careful of not "Excel-shaming" - for lots of people it's their only tool (which they're often very proficient with) and we don't want to make them feel bad for that. Definitely not saying you're doing it here, just something to be conscious of on the day

Author: Good idea, don't want to minimize existing skillsets!

Having a strategy ahead of time about how you organize your work when you are starting a project will pay handsome dividends, both for you and for anyone who will be accessing your work down the road. And when you use code (e.g. R or Python) to do a lot of the processing of the data in your project, it is unavoidable that you will have to make some decisions about how to manage your work, which includes managing your files.    

<center>
    <img src="images/working-with-code/workaround.png" width=320 style="margin:auto"/>
    <p style="text-align: center">
        Don't be this guy!
    </p>
</center>

<br>
*Treat data as read only*

> One of the first things that you will do in a coding environment is to identify your data source and read or ingest that data into your environment to process it further. You should however, leave that originating data unaltered! Once the data is in your coding environment, that is where the processing will take place, and that process will end with some "improved" version of the data will be produced. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
One of the first things that you will do in a coding environment is to identify your data source and read or ingest that data into your environment to process it further. You should however, leave that originating data unaltered! Once the data is in your coding environment, that is where the processing will take place, and that process will end with some "improved" version of the data being produced. 
```

*Clean and analyse your data with code*

In many cases your data will be “dirty”. That is to say, filled with missing data, spelling mistakes, duplicate records, data type errors, you name it! Your code will clean it. Once you have your clean data, your code will generate insights from it. All of this code (in our case, Python code) will take the form of scripts in separate files. All of these scripts should be stored in a folder separate from the original data itself.  

*Treat generated output as disposable*

> As you should be able to take the original data as well as the scripts to process it into something useful, you can recreate the outputs at any time. So while you might have a place where you store the processed data, you should treat it as disposable. Disposable essentially means reproducible. It is a bit like having a kitchen pantry with ingredients for making a cake along with the recipe to guide us through the steps to make it. We should be able to make the same cake over and over again with a stocked pantry and access to the recipe. But if we lose either the stocked pantry or the recipe, we won't be able to make any more cake. As the chef treats the cake as edible, the data scientist treats the output as disposable. 

Reviewer 2: I love this analogy so much. Maybe I just love cake...

> As you should be able to take the original data as well as the scripts to process it into something useful, you can recreate the outputs at any time. So while you might have a place where you store the processed data, you should treat it as disposable. Disposable essentially means reproducible. It is a bit like having a kitchen pantry with ingredients for making a cake along with the recipe to guide us through the steps to make it. We should be able to make the same cake over and over again with a stocked pantry and access to the recipe. But if we lose either the stocked pantry or the recipe, we won't be able to make any more cake. As the chef treats the cake as edible, the data scientist treats the output as disposable. 

Reviewer: Just a small tweak to ground what we mean by "outputs"

```suggestion
As you should be able to take the original data as well as the scripts to process it into something useful, you can recreate the outputs at any time. So while you might have a place where you store the processed data, you should treat it as disposable. Disposable essentially means reproducible. It is a bit like having a kitchen pantry with ingredients for making a cake along with the recipe to guide us through the steps to make it. We should be able to make the same cake over and over again with a stocked pantry and access to the recipe. But if we lose either the stocked pantry or the recipe, we won't be able to make any more cake. As the chef treats the cake as edible, the data scientist treats the output (plots, data summaries, model results) as disposable. 
```

*Organize your files*

While there is no perfect template for how to organize your work, below is an example that shows how you might consider organizing your work for a relatively straightforward data project. Let's say we have a project that is about analyzing marmots in BC. Here's how you could structure your work, so that it stays well organized:

>  /MarmotsBC could be the top level directory, it is the project name, without spaces. Under this project the remaining files could be organized within the following structure:

Reviewer 2: So in my section on Getting Data with Pandas I also briefly touch on directory structures (and I'm totally going to have to go rename mine to be better about the no spaces thing!) Anyways, in writing up that section I ran across a useful template for displaying a directory structure (that I think is pretty widely used across stackoverflow and other places). If you want to use the same template here it would look like this:

````
```
/MarmotsBC          top level directory, 
│                   contains project name, without spaces
│
└─── /docs          supporting text and word processed documents 
│                   that are meant for humans to read
│
└─── /data          the original (meta)data that acts as an input 
│                   and will be treated as read-only
│
└─── /src           your scripts, may further be divided 
│                   into /functions, /test, etc.
│
└─── /bin           programs brought in from elsewhere
│
└─── /output        data written by your code to this location, 
│                   could be input for another process
│
└─── /analysis      the charts, stats, figures and the like 
                    generated from your scripts
```
````

Author: I'll review this content in your section and likely take mine out. With finite course delivery time, probably not worthwhile to overlap here.

Author: Thanks I'll use the visual approach you added @lindsay-forestell to be consistent with how you mock up your dir structure in 21.

Author: and weirdly it also reads like haiku! very elegant

    /output           data written by your code, could be input for another process
    /analysis         the charts, stats, figures and the like generated from your scripts
    

*Name and split files when needed*

When you are naming files themselves, try to have the names reflect their content or function. You will also find that as your project grows, documents such as scripts may need to be split apart and renamed. For example, you might create some functions as you analyse your data in a single script. At some point you will likely want to create a separate script file just for the functions. When splitting, make sure you eliminate redundent content between files. 

*Version control*

When working alone and especially when working within a team, it is helpful to leverage tools that help ensure that everyone's work is kept up to date and organized. There are tools such as git/GitHub that are made precisely for this purpose. If you hear people talking about repos, merges, commits, pull requests, etc, they are probably talking about the git world. It is beyond the scope of this tutorial to dive into this topic, but it is something to keep in mind. 

> 

Reviewer 2: The R course links to this github tutorial for people who want to learn more, we can probably do the same here:
https://swcarpentry.github.io/git-novice/

Author: Good idea.

<center>
    <img src="images/working-with-code/github.png" size=200 style="margin:auto" border=1/>
    <p style="text-align: center">
        Where ideas work (and are kept organized and up-to-date)
    </p>
</center>

<br>

:::{.callout-warning icon="false"}
## Challenge 1

> What are three activities associated with a project that are made more difficult and put at risk if project files are not kept well organized? Who is likely to be affected? 

Reviewer: I like these challenges - I think it would be good to get them to discuss them at their tables?

Author: Good idea, i'll add a note to this effect.

:::

:::{.callout-note icon="false" collapse="true"}
## Solution to Challenge 1

> Activities that will be affected are 1) interpreting outputs, and 2) fixing errors that arise, and 3) extending the project. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Activities that will be affected include:

1. interpreting outputs
2. fixing errors that arise
3. extending the project. 
```

Existing or future team members will be most directly affected. Ultimately downstream users of the data may also be impacted. 
:::

:::{.callout-warning icon="false"}
## Challenge 2

If output is generally considered the most usable thing for end-users of data, why should it be considered as disposable? 
:::

:::{.callout-note icon="false" collapse="true"}
## Solution to Challenge 2

Output can always be reproduced if the data itself and details about how the data is transformed (cleaned, munged, analyzed, etc.) is available. The loss of things that can be generated from data and code is not a serious risk to the project.
:::
<br>

## Getting coding help

Being effective with using python, or any other coding language, requires that you hone your self-serve skills. Coding requires that you are comfortable with asking and getting questions answered using a number of techniques. Here are a few to know and use. 

*Topical help*  

> In whatever developing environment (sometimes called an IDE - Integrated Development Environment) you choose to work with, there are usually very helpful links readily available.  In the Jupyter Notebook environment, for example, you will find such help under the *Help* choice in the top menu. 

Reviewer 2: I think we are introducing them to the JupyterLab interface version of Jupyter Notebooks. Is it worth making the screenshot match that so we don't cause too much confusion?

Author: Fair point! I'll redo the visuals for a more seamless experience.

<center>
    <img src="images/working-with-code/jup_help.png" size=700 style="margin:auto" border=1/>
    <p style="text-align: center">
        Finding Jupyter Notebook's Help
    </p>
</center>

When you click on `Help` you see an expanded range of topics:

<center>
    <img src="images/working-with-code/vertical_help.png" size=700 style="margin:auto" border=1/>
    <p style="text-align: center">
        Topical Help at your fingertips
    </p>
</center>

Under the topics listed you will find treasure troves of helpful documentation relating to Python. Whether you are relatively new to the language or have years of experience already with it, one of the most helpful sections you will find there is *Python Reference*:

<center>
    <img src="images/working-with-code/python_documentation.png" size=700 style="margin:auto" border=1/>
    <p style="text-align: center">
        Official Python Documentation
    </p>
</center>

> Each section in  provides useful content that is related to the version you Python you are working with! One of the particularly helpful sections for those new to Python is the *Tutorial* section, where you will find tutorials on several of the topics in this course, plus many more.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Each section provides useful content that is related to the version of Python you are working with! One of the particularly helpful sections for those new to Python is the *Tutorial* section, where you will find tutorials on several of the topics in this course, plus many more.
```

*Functions help*  

> Functions in Python have excellent documentation that you should be able to access fairly readily. Below are screen shots from the Jupyter Notebook environment that show two distinct ways to access. The example below shows how to get detail about a specific function by calling `help()` function itself and passing in the name of the function of interest:

Reviewer 2: Should these be screen shots or actually just code blocks? The shift-tab one probably needs to be a screenshot (and so it probably makes sense to make them both) - but same as above I would stick to the JupyterLab interface I think.

Reviewer: I like code blocks better in general where we can - easier for us to update/tweak and users to search/copy/paste

Author: I'll do it in codeblocks

<left>
    <img src="images/working-with-code/shiftenter_help.png" size=700 style="margin:auto" border=1/>
    <p style="text-align: center">
 
</left>

Within Jupyter Notebook, it is also possible to place the cursor inside the "()" and then pulse the Shift-tab key combination twice to get access to a pop-up:

<left>
    <img src="images/working-with-code/shifttab_x2.png" size=700 style="margin:auto" border=1/>
    <p style="text-align: center">
     
  
</left>

*Syntax error help*

When developing code, you will go through a process over and over where you write some code and then test it. If it works, you keep going, adding complexity and content to your code. But what happens if it does not work? Fortunately Python delivers some clues about what may have gone wrong. 

Here are a couple of examples of syntax errors, where python is essentially saying "I don't understand what you mean"! 

> <left>

Reviewer 2: If you want these to run in the notebook and be in the same style as the rest of the code blocks in the lessons, you can make the python cell run with an error instead of a screenshot: 
````
```{python}
#| error: true
# Forgot to close the quotation marks around the string.
name = 'Feng
```
````

Reviewer 2: Ignore - changed my mind down below.

    <img src="images/working-with-code/EOL.png" size=700 style="margin:auto" border=1/>
    <p style="text-align: center">
        
 
</left>

These kinds of errors are usually because of careless typing such as leaving off a quote or comma or bracket somewhere (or adding one too many).

<left>
    <img src="images/working-with-code/invalid_syntax.png" size=700 style="margin:auto" border=1/>
    <p style="text-align: center">
        
</left>

Syntax errors are usually not too complex, and relatively easy to find and fix. 

*Runtime error help*

Python reports also *runtime errors*, also sometimes called *exceptions*, which are thrown when something goes wrong while a program is executing. This is more like python saying "I understand what you are saying, but I am running into some trouble in doing what you are asking". 

> Some common types of runtime errors when your code:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Some common types of runtime errors when you code:
```

- tries to divide something by zero
- performs an operation on incompatible data types 
- uses an identifier which has not been defined
- accesses a list element, dictionary value or object attribute which doesn’t exist
- tries to access a file which doesn’t exist

In the example below, the code is telling python to import a package that is not yet installed. 

<left>
    <img src="images/working-with-code/module_not_found.png" size=500 style="margin:auto" border=1/>
    <p style="text-align: center">
    
</left>

> In the example below, the issue is not a syntax error (although it might like a typo that one might associate with being a syntax error)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the example below, the issue is not a syntax error (although it might look like a typo that one might associate with being a syntax error)
```

<left>
    <img src="images/working-with-code/runtime_error2.png" size=500 style="margin:auto" border=1/>
    <p style="text-align: center">     
  
</left>

> The above examples introduce the concept of *traceback*, which is a way of helping the coder locate the origin of the error experienced. A *traceback* will show up in output that is to be read "from the bottom up".  In the above example, we see that the program does not recognize the object "aege" when it encounters it in cell line 2. Note that this does not necessarily mean that the problem should be fixed at the location indicated. In the above example, a reexamination of the code might reveal that the original name assigned was incorrectly spelled. Were that the case, then the original name assignment should be updated, not the reference to it in cell line 2. 

Reviewer 2: I take back my earlier comments - I messed around with it and displaying the error in-line gives less details than showing the full notebook output. So I'd stick with the screenshots for the errors!

*Diving deeper*

> The first and best way to work though why your code failed is to look at the information provided at the bottom of the output. As in the examples above, much of the time you will have enough information there to give you some ideas about what the cause of the problem is and a starting point for modifying the code and running it again. 

Reviewer: I wonder if it would be worth talking about (and maybe demoing?) some very interactive basic debugging practices? e.g., break up piped code into separate calls, break up nested calls etc? Just inspecting objects with `type`, `head` etc. to make sure we are dealing with what we think we are...?

Author: I will look for a couple of spots to add some

<center>
    <img src="images/working-with-code/goog-stackoverflow.png" size=700 style="margin:auto" border=1/>
    <p style="text-align: center">
        Global community and solutions to challenges or fixes for bugs
    </p>
</center>

Among the more popular entries you'll find on the search engine response page come from stackoverflow or other coding community sites, and from blogs or other sources. It may also pay to look at "videos" among your Google search responses and you will likely see many YouTube offerings of varying degrees of relevance. There is a whole ecosystem of python developers (polished and not-so-much) who offer content that may be of help. These are often very helpful. 

Imagine we were working through the "SyntaxError: EOL while scanning string literal" error above. You know that it's a syntax error, so you examine your code for something that does not look right based on what you know about writing code. What happens if you still are getting an error? Then a Google search might be helpful.

<center>

>     <img src="images/working-with-code/google_syntax_error.png" size=500 style="margin:auto" border=1/>

Reviewer 2: If you use width="100%" (or some other %) instead of size=500 it will use relative sizing so that the image is guaranteed to fall within the confines of the column width. (On my screen this image hangs off to the right and overlaps with the table of contents)

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/45674978/202321297-a569732f-5a19-41db-999b-f904e32e255a.png)

Author: Thanks! It is weird to me that it does not resize it to 500 pixels or whatever you set...

    <p style="text-align: center">
        Error deep dive 
    </p>
</center>

> The highlighted summary information shows us that it understands that we are referring to a python issue, not a general coding one. So that is a good sign. It summarizes from a page on the realpython.com site (https://realpython.com/invalid-syntax-python/). Moreover it suggests different ways that others have extended the search that you might find helpful. While the suggested site itself is not an official python site, it nonetheless is a quality site about python that will likely be worthwhile to review. Once there, you will find more useful information 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The highlighted summary information shows us that it understands that we are referring to a python issue, not a general coding one. So that is a good sign. It summarizes from a [page on the realpython.com site](https://realpython.com/invalid-syntax-python/). Moreover it suggests different ways that others have extended the search that you might find helpful. While the suggested site itself is not an official python site, it nonetheless is a quality site about python that will likely be worthwhile to review. Once there, you will find more useful information 
```

If you use \[words you want to display\](URL) syntax, you can get the URL linked to the text.

<br>

:::{.callout-warning icon="false"}
## Challenge 3

You want to find out what the `print()` function does. How would you look to answer this question? What does it do, does it send a print job to a printer? 
:::

:::{.callout-note icon="false" collapse="true"}
## Solution to Challenge 3
Use one of the two most efficient ways to obtain information

> help(print)   # One way to get the info

Reviewer 2: I would put this in an actual code block so it displays the help output.

print() # Another way to get the info

Prints the values passed into it to a stream or to an output (usually to output shown on a monitor)
:::

:::{.callout-warning icon="false"}
## Challenge 4

> Someone asks you want the term "iterable" means in the context of a python function? How would you go about finding an answer? What does it mean? 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Someone asks you what the term "iterable" means in the context of a python function? How would you go about finding an answer? What does it mean? 
```

:::
:::{.callout-note icon="false" collapse="true"}
## Solution to Challenge 4
You could use help off of the menu. Might be quicker to do a Google search. 

*Iterable is an object which can be looped over or iterated over with the help of a for loop. Objects like lists, tuples, sets, dictionaries, strings, etc. are called iterables. In short and simpler terms, iterable is anything that you can loop over.*

You may or may not know what "loops" are, but perhaps have heard of lists and such. Particularly at the beginning of your Python journey, there will be terms that you will not yet be familiar with that will show up in explanations of other things. Don't worry! As with anything, this will occur less and less often over time. 
:::

<br>

## Coding in style

> Working with python can be challenging. When you are first learning it, there may seem to be so many different rules around using certain kinds of brackets (and not others) at certain times, rules around indenting lines, etc. Many of these rules result in your code refusing to run. Often your code may run, however, it may not necessarily be easy to follow for someone reading through it. In an enterprise environment, your code will likely be read and referenced by others, so making it easy to decipher is important! 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Working with python can be challenging. When you are first learning it, there may seem to be so many different rules around using certain kinds of brackets (and not others) at certain times, rules around indenting lines, etc. Many of these rules result in your code refusing to run. Often your code may run. However, it may not necessarily be easy to follow for someone else reading through it. In an enterprise environment, your code will likely be read and referenced by others, so making it easy to decipher is important! 
```

 <br>
 
<center>
    <img src="images/working-with-code/code_quality_3.png" size=700 style="margin:auto"/>
    <p style="text-align: center">
        Style matters!
    </p>
</center>

Fortunately, there are some widely accepted guidelines about coding style that you should be aware of and strive towards over time. In the Python world, the style guide you should know about is "PEP8" which stands for Python Enhancements Proposals. 

There are many specific rules in PEP8, here are some to be aware of from the start. 

*Comments*

When coding, it is good practice to `comment` on code, but only when the code is likely to be non-obvious to others who are likely to review it. Comments are preceded by a "#", which within Python, ensures that they are recognized as non-executable and therefore no threat to actually affecting your code. Below are two examples of how you can add comments to your code (if necessary).

```{python}
# The bog standard first line of code learned in any progamming language
print("Hello World")

print("Hello World")  # New programmer's first line of code in any language 
```

> *Spacing within code*

Reviewer: I like the phrase "Let your code breathe" :)

Author: Nice! I'll use that.

> There are a number of little conventions about spacing that just have to be learned. In the code below look at the comments that go along to see what is considered good style and what is considered good and what is not.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are a number of little conventions about spacing that just have to be learned. In the code below look at the accompanying comments to see what is considered good style practice and what is not.  
```

```{python}
# Good style, as there is a space on either side of the assignment operator 
a = print("hello")  

# Poor style, as the assignment operator lacks spaces around it
a=print("hello")    
```

```{python}
# Good style, as there is no space between the function call and left parenthesis
print(2)  

# Poor style, as there should be no space between function call and left parenthesis
print (2) 
```

> Below are some examples of how to incorporate spaces when you have operators with different priorities (i.e. remember PEMDAS or BODMAS from high school?). In general, add space for those instances with lower priority:

Reviewer: Funny, convention in R is to always have spaces between operators - your "bad "style" in Python is considered good in R ;).  I've never seen the tight spacing for higher-precedence operators... I think I kind of like it though!

```python
# Good style
i = i + 1 
x = x*2 - 1
c = (a+b) * (a-b)

# Poor style
i=i+1 
x = x * 2 - 1
c = (a + b) * (a - b)
```

There are many other conventions about spacing, but the ones above are some of the more common ones to watch out for. 

*Indentation*

A line of code that completes a meaningful coherent action of some sort, is kind of like a complete sentence in grammar. As with sentences, a line of code can be short and sweet, long and convoluted, and anywhere in between. Where lines of code are longer than 79 characters, certain style guide rules come into play. The examples below show how to carry over content from one line to the next line. 

```python
# Correct - aligned with opening delimeter
animals = animals.drop('weight', 'size', 'age', 'location', 'eye colour', 
                       'intelligence', 'cost', 'number held in zoos')

> # Correct - hanging indents (usually four spaces, should not use tabs)

Reviewer 2: I'm totally a tabber 😬. Forgive me pep8!

Author: i think it is the mixing of spacing and tabbing that PEP8 "takes a dim view of" ... i am going to rephrase to just use one or the other

animals = animals.drop(
    'weight', 'size', 'age', 'location', 'eye colour', 'intelligence', 

>     'cost', 'number held in zoos')

Reviewer: In R if we use this style, the closing parenthesis goes on it's own line. Don't take this suggestion if not the form for Python though!
```suggestion
    'cost', 'number held in zoos'
)
```

Author: @ateucher my bad, you're right! will fix.

```

*Blank lines*

> Blank lines should be used sparingly, but they should be used when appropriate. As a general rule of thumb is that there should be a single blank row between blocks of code. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Blank lines should be used sparingly, but they can be used where appropriate. A general rule of thumb is that there should be a single blank row between blocks of code, and two blank rows between functions. 
```

:::{.callout-warning icon="false"}
## Challenge 5

Based on what we have covered, what, if any are the style code issues. 
```python

# Example 1
print (last_name) 

# Example 2
celcius = (fahrenheit - 32) / 1.8  

# Example 3

>  index = ['snail', 'pig', 'elephant', 'rabbit', 'giraffe', 'coyote', 'horse', 'giraffe', 'ping pong table']

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
index = ['snail', 'pig', 'elephant', 'rabbit', 'giraffe', 'coyote', 'horse', 'giraffe', 'ping pong table']
```
Also had an extra space at the beginning, unless that was on purpose.

```

:::

:::{.callout-note icon="false" collapse="true"}
## Solution to Challenge 5

Example 1: there should be no space between the function call and the "("

Example 2: there should be no space between "fahrenheit", the "-" operator, and "32" 

Example 3: line exceeds 79 characters so should be spaced over two lines
:::

<br>

> *Consistency sometimes more important than being right*

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*Consistency is sometimes more important than being right*
```

<center>
    <img src="images/working-with-code/python_documentation.png" width=95% style="margin:auto" border=1/>
    <p style="text-align: center">
        Official Python Documentation
    </p>
</center>

Each section provides useful content that is related to the version of Python you are working with! One of the particularly helpful sections for those new to Python is the *Tutorial* section, where you will find tutorials on several of the topics in this course, plus many more.

<br>
*Functions help*  

Functions in Python have excellent documentation that you should be able to access fairly readily. Below are screen shots from the Jupyter Notebook environment that show two distinct ways to access. The example below shows how to get detail about a specific function by calling `help()` function itself and passing in the name of the function of interest:

```{python}
help(round) # Run code as normal to get help information
```

<br>

Within Jupyter environments, it is also possible to place the cursor inside the cell with the function and hit `Shift-tab` to get information:

```{python}
#| error: True
round() # Shift-tab to get drop-down help in Jupyter 
```

<left>

>     <img src="images/working-with-code/jl_shifttab.png" size=600 style="margin:auto" border=1/>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    <img src="images/working-with-code/jl_shifttab.png" size=70% style="margin:auto" border=1/>
```

Changing a few missed plots to % instead of raw pixels.

    <p style="text-align: center">
</left>

<br>
*Syntax error help*

When developing code, you will go through a process over and over where you write some code and then test it. If it works, you keep going, adding complexity and content to your code. But what happens if it does not work? Fortunately Python delivers some clues about what may have gone wrong. 

Here are a couple of examples of syntax errors, where python is essentially saying "I don't understand what you mean"! 

```{python}
#| error: true
# Forgot to close the quotation marks after the quote
name = 'Feng
```

<left>

>     <img src="images/working-with-code/jl_syntaxerror.png" size=500 style="margin:auto" border=1/>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    <img src="images/working-with-code/jl_syntaxerror.png" size=70% style="margin:auto" border=1/>
```

    <p style="text-align: center">
        
</left>

These kinds of errors are usually because of careless typing such as leaving off a quote or comma or bracket somewhere (or adding one too many).

```{python}
#| error: true
# An extra '=' in the assignment
age = = 52
```

<left>

>     <img src="images/working-with-code/jl_syntaxerror2.png" size=500 style="margin:auto" border=1/>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    <img src="images/working-with-code/jl_syntaxerror2.png" size=70% style="margin:auto" border=1/>
```

In the example below, the code is telling python to import a package that is not yet installed. 

```{python}
#| error: true
# Python cannot find this library
import shap
```

<left>

>     <img src="images/working-with-code/nomodule.png" size=500 style="margin:auto" border=1/>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    <img src="images/working-with-code/nomodule.png" size=70% style="margin:auto" border=1/>
```

    <p style="text-align: center">
    
</left>
<br>
In the example below, the issue is not a syntax error (although it might look like a typo that one might associate with being a syntax error).

```{python}
#| error: true
age = 54
years_to_100 = 100 - aege  # mis-spelled assigned variable called 'age'
```

<left>

>     <img src="images/working-with-code/aege_not_defined.png" size=500 style="margin:auto" border=1/>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    <img src="images/working-with-code/aege_not_defined.png" size=70% style="margin:auto" border=1/>
```
